README.md, before:

# Plupdate for Playdate

[![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/DidierMalenfant/Plupdate)](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html) [![Lua Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Lua-5.4-yellowgreen)](https://lua.org) [![Toybox Compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/toybox.py-compatible-brightgreen)](https://toyboxpy.io) [![Latest Version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/DidierMalenfant/Plupdate)](https://github.com/DidierMalenfant/Plupdate/tags)

**Plupdate** is a [**Playdate**](https://play.date) **toybox** which helps manage the `playdate.update()` callback method.

You can add it to your **Playdate** project by installing [**toybox.py**](https://toyboxpy.io), going to your project folder in a Terminal window and typing:

```console
toybox add DidierMalenfant/Plupdate
toybox update
```

Then, if your code is in the `source` folder, just import the following:

```lua
import '../toyboxes/toyboxes.lua'
```

When using **Plupdate** or when using a library that uses **Plupdate**, do not define any `playdate.update()` in your code. Instead you can hook up some code in the update loop like so:

```lua
Plupdate.addCallback(function()
    -- Place your code here
    ...
end)
```

## Why do we need this?

Up to now, the main application had to implement `playdate.update()` and had to made sure that this method called all the update methods required by any dependencies. **Plupdate** handles this for you and also handles enabling updates for various SDK sub-systems like sprites or timers.

If you are using a library that means you don't have to worry about adding things to `playdate.update()` yourself. If you are writing a library that means you can make sure that the things you need are in `playdate.update()` without requiring anything from your end-user.

It just works™.

## Usage

##### `Plupdate.iWillBeUsingTimers()`

Tell **Plupdate** that you require `playdate.timer.update_timers()` to be called during the update loop.

##### `Plupdate.iWillBeUsingFrameTimers()`

Tell **Plupdate** that you require `playdate.frameTimer.update_timers()` to be called during the update loop.

##### `Plupdate.iWillBeUsingSprites()`

Tell **Plupdate** that you require `playdate.graphics.sprite.update()` to be called during the update loop.

##### `Plupdate.addCallback(callback, arg1, arg2)`

Add a callback to the update loop. These will be executed **before** any of the system updates, sprites and timers for example, and in the order in which they are added.

In order to add an instance method as a callback, just pass `self` as the first argument:

```lua
Plupdate.addCallback(ClassName.method, self)
```

##### `Plupdate.addPostCallback(callback, arg1, arg2)`

Add a callback to the update loop. These will be executed **after** any of the system updates, sprites and timers for example, and in the reverse order in which they are added.

In order to add an instance method as a callback, just pass `self` as the first argument:

```lua
Plupdate.addPostCallback(ClassName.method, self)
```

## License

**Plupdate** is distributed under the terms of the [MIT](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html) license.

Commit message:

Clarified the changes needed in your code

README.md, after:

# Plupdate for Playdate

[![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/DidierMalenfant/Plupdate)](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html) [![Lua Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Lua-5.4-yellowgreen)](https://lua.org) [![Toybox Compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/toybox.py-compatible-brightgreen)](https://toyboxpy.io) [![Latest Version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/DidierMalenfant/Plupdate)](https://github.com/DidierMalenfant/Plupdate/tags)

**Plupdate** is a [**Playdate**](https://play.date) **toybox** which helps manage the `playdate.update()` callback method.

You can add it to your **Playdate** project by installing [**toybox.py**](https://toyboxpy.io), going to your project folder in a Terminal window and typing:

```console
toybox add DidierMalenfant/Plupdate
toybox update
```

Then, if your code is in the `source` folder, just import the following:

```lua
import '../toyboxes/toyboxes.lua'
```

This **toybox** contains **Lua** toys for you to play with.

## Changes in your code

When using **Plupdate** or a library which uses **Plupdate**, make sure to replace your own `playdate.update()` like this:

```lua
Plupdate.addCallback(function()
    -- Place your update() code here instead
    ...
end)
```

## Why do we need this?

Up to now, the main application had to implement `playdate.update()` and had to made sure that this method called all the update methods required by any dependencies. **Plupdate** handles this for you and also handles enabling updates for various SDK sub-systems like sprites or timers.

If you are using a library that means you don't have to worry about adding things to `playdate.update()` yourself. If you are writing a library that means you can make sure that the things you need are in `playdate.update()` without requiring anything from your end-user.

It just works™.

## Usage

##### `Plupdate.iWillBeUsingTimers()`

Tell **Plupdate** that you require `playdate.timer.update_timers()` to be called during the update loop.

##### `Plupdate.iWillBeUsingFrameTimers()`

Tell **Plupdate** that you require `playdate.frameTimer.update_timers()` to be called during the update loop.

##### `Plupdate.iWillBeUsingSprites()`

Tell **Plupdate** that you require `playdate.graphics.sprite.update()` to be called during the update loop.

##### `Plupdate.addCallback(callback, arg1, arg2)`

Add a callback to the update loop. These will be executed **before** any of the system updates, sprites and timers for example, and in the order in which they are added.

In order to add an instance method as a callback, just pass `self` as the first argument:

```lua
Plupdate.addCallback(ClassName.method, self)
```

##### `Plupdate.addPostCallback(callback, arg1, arg2)`

Add a callback to the update loop. These will be executed **after** any of the system updates, sprites and timers for example, and in the reverse order in which they are added.

In order to add an instance method as a callback, just pass `self` as the first argument:

```lua
Plupdate.addPostCallback(ClassName.method, self)
```

## License

**Plupdate** is distributed under the terms of the [MIT](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html) license.
